ddtrace/internal/README.md, before:

# Internal

These modules are not intended to be used outside of `ddtrace`.

The APIs found within `ddtrace.internal` are subject to breaking changes at any time
and do not follow the semver versioning scheme of the `ddtrace` package.


## The Product Protocol

New products can be introduced in a modular way by defining a new product
object that implements the product protocol. This consists of a Python object
(generally a module) that exports the following mandatory attributes:

| Attribute | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `start() -> None` | A function with the logic required to start the product |
| `restart(join: bool = False) -> None` | A function with the logic required to restart the product after a fork |
| `stop(join: bool = False) -> None` | A function with the logic required to stop the product |
| `at_exit(join: bool = False) -> None` | A function with the logic required to stop the product at exit |
| `post_preload() -> None` | A function with the logic required to finish initialization after the library  preload stage |

The product object needs to be made available to the Python plugin system by
defining an entry point in the `project.entry-points.'ddtrace.products'` section
of the `pyproject.toml` file.

> [!NOTE]
> The `post_preload` method is part of the gevent support via module cloning.
> Once a different solution will be in place, this function will likely be
> removed. Any initialization logic that needs to be executed on load can be
> moved to the `start` method, or as part of the product object initialization.

Products can also define optional attributes that are used to manage other
aspects of a product's lifecycle. This list can grow over time as the protocol
gets extended to add support for additional features.

| Attribute | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `requires: list[str]` | A list of other product names that the product depends on |

Commit message:

docs(internal): revert removed line (#12838)
A line was removed by mistake from the internal README.md

## Checklist
- [x] PR author has checked that all the criteria below are met
- The PR description includes an overview of the change
- The PR description articulates the motivation for the change
- The change includes tests OR the PR description describes a testing
strategy
- The PR description notes risks associated with the change, if any
- Newly-added code is easy to change
- The change follows the [library release note
guidelines](https://ddtrace.readthedocs.io/en/stable/releasenotes.html)
- The change includes or references documentation updates if necessary
- Backport labels are set (if
[applicable](https://ddtrace.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contributing.html#backporting))

## Reviewer Checklist
- [x] Reviewer has checked that all the criteria below are met 
- Title is accurate
- All changes are related to the pull request's stated goal
- Avoids breaking
[API](https://ddtrace.readthedocs.io/en/stable/versioning.html#interfaces)
changes
- Testing strategy adequately addresses listed risks
- Newly-added code is easy to change
- Release note makes sense to a user of the library
- If necessary, author has acknowledged and discussed the performance
implications of this PR as reported in the benchmarks PR comment
- Backport labels are set in a manner that is consistent with the
[release branch maintenance
policy](https://ddtrace.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contributing.html#backporting)

ddtrace/internal/README.md, after:

# Internal
This internal module is used to define and document an internal only API for `ddtrace`.

These modules are not intended to be used outside of `ddtrace`.

The APIs found within `ddtrace.internal` are subject to breaking changes at any time
and do not follow the semver versioning scheme of the `ddtrace` package.


## The Product Protocol

New products can be introduced in a modular way by defining a new product
object that implements the product protocol. This consists of a Python object
(generally a module) that exports the following mandatory attributes:

| Attribute | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `start() -> None` | A function with the logic required to start the product |
| `restart(join: bool = False) -> None` | A function with the logic required to restart the product after a fork |
| `stop(join: bool = False) -> None` | A function with the logic required to stop the product |
| `at_exit(join: bool = False) -> None` | A function with the logic required to stop the product at exit |
| `post_preload() -> None` | A function with the logic required to finish initialization after the library  preload stage |

The product object needs to be made available to the Python plugin system by
defining an entry point in the `project.entry-points.'ddtrace.products'` section
of the `pyproject.toml` file.

> [!NOTE]
> The `post_preload` method is part of the gevent support via module cloning.
> Once a different solution will be in place, this function will likely be
> removed. Any initialization logic that needs to be executed on load can be
> moved to the `start` method, or as part of the product object initialization.

Products can also define optional attributes that are used to manage other
aspects of a product's lifecycle. This list can grow over time as the protocol
gets extended to add support for additional features.

| Attribute | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `requires: list[str]` | A list of other product names that the product depends on |
