docs/basic_usage.rst, before:

.. _`basic usage`:

Basic Usage
===========

Automatic Instrumentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``ddtrace.auto``
----------------

To enable full ddtrace support (library instrumentation, profiling, application security monitoring, dynamic instrumentation, etc.) call :ref:`import ddtrace.auto<ddtraceauto>` as the very first thing
in your application. This will only work if your application is not running under ``ddtrace-run``.

Note: Some Datadog products and instrumentation are disabled by default. Products and instrumentation can be enabled/disable via environment variables, see :ref:`configurations <Configuration>` page for more details.

Tracing
~~~~~~~

Manual Instrumentation
----------------------

To extend the functionality of the ``ddtrace`` library several APIs are
provided.

Decorator
---------

``ddtrace`` provides a decorator that can be used to trace a particular method
in your application::

  @tracer.wrap()
  def business_logic():
    """A method that would be of interest to trace."""
    # ...
    # ...

API documentation can be found here :py:meth:`ddtrace.trace.Tracer.wrap`.

Context Manager
---------------

To trace an arbitrary block of code, you can use :py:meth:`ddtrace.trace.Tracer.trace`
that returns a :py:mod:`ddtrace.trace.Span` which can be used as a context manager::

  # trace some interesting operation
  with tracer.trace('interesting.operations'):
    # do some interesting operation(s)
    # ...
    # ...

API documentation can be found here :py:meth:`ddtrace.trace.Tracer`.

Using the API
-------------

If the above methods are still not enough to satisfy your tracing needs, a
manual API to provide complete control over starting and stopping spans is available::

  span = tracer.trace('operations.of.interest')  # span is started once created

  # do some operation(s) of interest in between

  # NOTE: be sure to call span.finish() or the trace will not be sent to
  #       Datadog
  span.finish()

API details for creating and finishing spans can be found here:

- :py:meth:`ddtrace.trace.Tracer.trace`
- :py:meth:`ddtrace.trace.Span.finish`.


Profiling
~~~~~~~~~

Via module
----------
To automatically profile your code, you can import the `ddtrace.profiling.auto` module.
As soon as it is imported, it will start capturing CPU profiling information on
your behalf::

  import ddtrace.profiling.auto

Via API
-------
If you want to control which part of your code should be profiled, you can use
the `ddtrace.profiling.Profiler` object::

  from ddtrace.profiling import Profiler

  prof = Profiler()
  prof.start()

  # At shutdown
  prof.stop()

.. important::

   The profiler has been designed to be always-on. The ``start`` and ``stop``
   methods are provided in case you need a fine-grained control over the
   profiler lifecycle. They are not provided for starting and stopping the
   profiler many times during your application lifecycle. Do not use them for
   e.g. building a context manager.


Asyncio Support
---------------

The profiler supports the ``asyncio`` library and retrieves the
``asyncio.Task`` names to tag along the profiled data.

For this to work, the profiler `replaces the default event loop policy
<https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-policy.html#asyncio-policies>`_ with
a custom policy that tracks threads to loop mapping.

The custom asyncio loop policy is installed by default at profiler startup. You
can disable this behavior by using the ``asyncio_loop_policy`` parameter and
passing it ``None``::

  from ddtrace.profiling import Profiler

  prof = Profiler(asyncio_loop_policy=None)

You can also pass a custom class that implements the interface from
``ddtrace.profiling.profiler.DdtraceProfilerEventLoopPolicy``::


  from ddtrace.profiling import Profiler

  prof = Profiler(asyncio_loop_policy=MyLoopPolicy())


If the loop policy has been overridden after the profiler has started, you can
always restore the profiler asyncio loop policy by calling
the ``set_asyncio_event_loop_policy`` method::

  from ddtrace.profiling import Profiler

  prof = Profiler()
  prof.set_asyncio_event_loop_policy()

Error Tracking
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Automatic Instrumentation
-------------------------

.. important::

  This feature is available on Python3.10+ and ddtrace 3.8.0+

To enable automatic reporting of handled errors, you can set one of the two environment variables:

- ``DD_ERROR_TRACKING_HANDLED_ERRORS`` = ``user|third_party|all``. Report handled errors of: user code, third party packages or both.
- ``DD_ERROR_TRACKING_HANDLED_ERRORS_MODULES`` = ``module1, module2...``. List of modules for which you want to report handled errors.

Handled errors will be report in Error Tracking and attached to spans through span events.

If you are on Python3.10 or Python3.11 and you want to instrument ``__main__`` module, you need to add::

  from ddtrace.errortracking._handled_exceptions.bytecode_reporting import instrument_main

  if __name__ == "__main__":
    instrument_main()

This code should be added after the functions definitions with handled errors.

Manual Instrumentation
----------------------

You can report handled errors manually using ``span.record_exception(e)``::

  from ddtrace import tracer

  try:
    raise ValueError("foo")
  except ValueError as e:
    span = tracer.current_span()
    if span:
      span.record_exception(e)

This call will create a span event on the span with the error information and will report
the error to Error Tracking.
You can also provide additional attributes using::

  span.record_exception(e, {"foo": "bar"})

Commit message:

chore: change env variable name for consistency across languages

docs/basic_usage.rst, after:

.. _`basic usage`:

Basic Usage
===========

Automatic Instrumentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``ddtrace.auto``
----------------

To enable full ddtrace support (library instrumentation, profiling, application security monitoring, dynamic instrumentation, etc.) call :ref:`import ddtrace.auto<ddtraceauto>` as the very first thing
in your application. This will only work if your application is not running under ``ddtrace-run``.

Note: Some Datadog products and instrumentation are disabled by default. Products and instrumentation can be enabled/disable via environment variables, see :ref:`configurations <Configuration>` page for more details.

Tracing
~~~~~~~

Manual Instrumentation
----------------------

To extend the functionality of the ``ddtrace`` library several APIs are
provided.

Decorator
---------

``ddtrace`` provides a decorator that can be used to trace a particular method
in your application::

  @tracer.wrap()
  def business_logic():
    """A method that would be of interest to trace."""
    # ...
    # ...

API documentation can be found here :py:meth:`ddtrace.trace.Tracer.wrap`.

Context Manager
---------------

To trace an arbitrary block of code, you can use :py:meth:`ddtrace.trace.Tracer.trace`
that returns a :py:mod:`ddtrace.trace.Span` which can be used as a context manager::

  # trace some interesting operation
  with tracer.trace('interesting.operations'):
    # do some interesting operation(s)
    # ...
    # ...

API documentation can be found here :py:meth:`ddtrace.trace.Tracer`.

Using the API
-------------

If the above methods are still not enough to satisfy your tracing needs, a
manual API to provide complete control over starting and stopping spans is available::

  span = tracer.trace('operations.of.interest')  # span is started once created

  # do some operation(s) of interest in between

  # NOTE: be sure to call span.finish() or the trace will not be sent to
  #       Datadog
  span.finish()

API details for creating and finishing spans can be found here:

- :py:meth:`ddtrace.trace.Tracer.trace`
- :py:meth:`ddtrace.trace.Span.finish`.


Profiling
~~~~~~~~~

Via module
----------
To automatically profile your code, you can import the `ddtrace.profiling.auto` module.
As soon as it is imported, it will start capturing CPU profiling information on
your behalf::

  import ddtrace.profiling.auto

Via API
-------
If you want to control which part of your code should be profiled, you can use
the `ddtrace.profiling.Profiler` object::

  from ddtrace.profiling import Profiler

  prof = Profiler()
  prof.start()

  # At shutdown
  prof.stop()

.. important::

   The profiler has been designed to be always-on. The ``start`` and ``stop``
   methods are provided in case you need a fine-grained control over the
   profiler lifecycle. They are not provided for starting and stopping the
   profiler many times during your application lifecycle. Do not use them for
   e.g. building a context manager.


Asyncio Support
---------------

The profiler supports the ``asyncio`` library and retrieves the
``asyncio.Task`` names to tag along the profiled data.

For this to work, the profiler `replaces the default event loop policy
<https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-policy.html#asyncio-policies>`_ with
a custom policy that tracks threads to loop mapping.

The custom asyncio loop policy is installed by default at profiler startup. You
can disable this behavior by using the ``asyncio_loop_policy`` parameter and
passing it ``None``::

  from ddtrace.profiling import Profiler

  prof = Profiler(asyncio_loop_policy=None)

You can also pass a custom class that implements the interface from
``ddtrace.profiling.profiler.DdtraceProfilerEventLoopPolicy``::


  from ddtrace.profiling import Profiler

  prof = Profiler(asyncio_loop_policy=MyLoopPolicy())


If the loop policy has been overridden after the profiler has started, you can
always restore the profiler asyncio loop policy by calling
the ``set_asyncio_event_loop_policy`` method::

  from ddtrace.profiling import Profiler

  prof = Profiler()
  prof.set_asyncio_event_loop_policy()

Error Tracking
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Automatic Instrumentation
-------------------------

.. important::

  This feature is available on Python3.10+ and ddtrace 3.8.0+

To enable automatic reporting of handled errors, you can set one of the two environment variables:

- ``DD_ERROR_TRACKING_HANDLED_ERRORS`` = ``user|third_party|all``. Report handled errors of: user code, third party packages or both.
- ``DD_ERROR_TRACKING_HANDLED_ERRORS_INCLUDE`` = ``module1, module2...``. List of modules for which you want to report handled errors.
You need to specify the full name of the module. For instance for the module `security` in your `mysite` app, you need to specify
`mysite.security`

Handled errors will be report in Error Tracking and attached to spans through span events.

If you are on Python3.10 or Python3.11 and you want to instrument ``__main__`` module, you need to add::

  from ddtrace.errortracking._handled_exceptions.bytecode_reporting import instrument_main

  if __name__ == "__main__":
    instrument_main()

This code should be added after the functions definitions with handled errors.

Manual Instrumentation
----------------------

You can report handled errors manually using ``span.record_exception(e)``::

  from ddtrace import tracer

  try:
    raise ValueError("foo")
  except ValueError as e:
    span = tracer.current_span()
    if span:
      span.record_exception(e)

This call will create a span event on the span with the error information and will report
the error to Error Tracking.
You can also provide additional attributes using::

  span.record_exception(e, {"foo": "bar"})
